---
layout: post
title:  "Farm to Market: Taking Stock of the Agricultural Land Grab"
date:   2016-07-27 16:21:00 -0500
categories: post update
href: http://www.cnbc.com/2016/01/21/getting-your-plot-of-american-farmland-.html
---
Overview:
CNBC considers the current movement towards investment in ag land. Paul Pittman, 
CEO of Farmland Partners, believes we are at the onset of a 5-10% decrease in 
farmland prices in various states but restates the importance on the long-term 
perspective of the investment in farmland.

Discussion:
Many of the large players don't believe the market understands the farmland investment 
and therefore don't price the publicly traded stocks as highly as expected.  

The article provides an interesting investment perspective likely causing the decline 
in stock value-- individual and institutional investors have found it difficult to 
invest in these stock given their low market cap and low trading volume.  

More importantly, a disconnect may exist between the market's understanding of 
farmland prices and the income to farmland that determines many of these investors 
and REITs revenue.  The fundamental player here is the rent values and income
prospects.  Focus tends to be on farmland prices but this is or should be a
derivative of the rent which is a proxy or derivative of the income made off of the land.  
Income to land, rent and farmland prices are all related, but the correlation is not 
straight-forward and there exists lags between the information flow:
income --> rent --> farmland value, both as prices are increasing and decreasing.